Scorecard2 user docs (#3063)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/scorecard-alpha/_index.md

---
title: Scorecard (alpha)
weight: 25
---

# operator-sdk scorecard (alpha)

## Overview

> The scorecard command, part of the operator-sdk, executes tests on your operator based upon a user defined configuration file and test images.

Reviewer: Can you split these lines up so they're ~100 characters or below? It's easier to review going forward.

Author: yep, just split the lines to be more human readable.  The tables I found however still had to have flowing lines, not sure if there is a way around that.

> ---

Reviewer 2: What about (Alpha) to be an sub-menu? E.g 

scorecard
|----- stable
|----- alpha (--alpha)

Author: I was going to just remove the older scorecard when the alpha version moves from alpha, but other scorecard related docs would be sub-menu docs (e.g. custom image writing).

Reviewer 2: yep, I saw other PR for other related docs as well :-) 
see that it still: 

<img width="257" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-21 at 00 24 33" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7708031/82507222-9c6aca80-9af9-11ea-9aeb-ee903ffe008a.png">

To change we need to create the dir and add both files inside.

Author: reorganized to have the scorecard dir with the contents under it.

title: Scorecard (alpha)
weight: 25
---

# operator-sdk scorecard (alpha)

## Overview

The scorecard command, part of the operator-sdk, executes tests 
on your operator based upon a user defined configuration file 
and test images.

Tests are implemented within test images that are configured 
and constructed to be executed by scorecard.

Each test(s) is executed within a Pod by scorecard, pod logs 
contain the test results, and scorecard aggregates the test 
results to display to end users.  Scorecard therefore assumes 
it is being executed with access to a configured Kube cluster.

Scorecard has built-in basic and OLM tests but also provides a 
means to execute custom user defined tests.

## Requirements

The scorecard tests make no assumptions as to the state of the 
operator being tested.  Creating operators and custom resources 
for an operator are left outside the scope of the scorecard itself.

Scorecard tests can however create whatever resources they 
require if the tests are designed for resource creation.

Scorecard requires the following Kube environment:

> - Access to a Kubernetes v1.17.1+ cluster

Reviewer 2: Why we need v1.17.1+ cluster? Should not it be the same pre-requirement of SDK ?

Author: good catch, I updated it to match the 1.11.3 specified in the current scorecard doc.

## Running the Scorecard

1. Define a scorecard configuration file `config.yaml`.  A sample 
configuration file [config.yaml][sample-config] is found within 
the SDK repository. See [Config file](#config-file) for an explaination 
of the configuration file format.  Unless you are executing custom 
tests, you can just copy the provided example configuration file 
into your project.
2. Place the scorecard configuration file within your project 
bundle directory a the following location `tests/scorecard/config.yaml`.  
You can override the default location of the configuration file 
by specifying the `--config` flag.
3. Execute the [`scorecard` command][cli-scorecard]. See the 
[Command args](#command-args) to check its options.

> 

Reviewer 2: May is better just replace the number by makerdown item list or * or -

Author: not sure, having numbers indicates a preferred order I think.

Reviewer 2: I think that has a marker which will gen the numbers which make easier to update add new items. But It is fine.

  image: quay.io/operator-framework/scorecard-test:dev
  entrypoint:
  - scorecard-test
  - basic-check-spec
  labels:
    suite: basic
    test: basic-check-spec-test
  description: check the spec test
- name: "olm-bundle-validation"
  image: quay.io/operator-framework/scorecard-test:dev
  entrypoint:
  - scorecard-test
  - olm-bundle-validation
  labels:
    suite: olm
    test: olm-bundle-validation-test
  description: validate the bundle test
```

The configuration file defines each test that scorecard can execute.  
The following fields of the scorecard configuration file define the 
test as follows:
 
 * name - the human readable name you use to describe the test, 
however, the actual name printed by scorecard when it executes the 
test is defined within the test itself
 * image - the test container image name that implements a test 
 * entrypoint - the command and arguments that are invoked in the 
test image to execute a test
 * labels - user defined labels that allow for test selection using 
the scorecard CLI `--selector` flag
 * description - the human readable description for the test, however, 
the description printed by scorecard on an executed test is the 

> description provided by the test implementation itself

Reviewer 2: The above may be better rendered in a table instead of items.

Author: agreed, updated it.

| `--kubeconfig`, `-o`  | string |  path to kubeconfig used by the scorecard to execute tests, if not supplied, the KUBECONFIG environment variable or $HOME/.kube/config path is assumed, if those are not found an in-cluster configuraiton is assumed. |
| `--list`, `-L`  | bool |  if true, only print the test names that would be run based on selector filtering. |
| `--namespace`, `-n`  | string |  the namespace for scorecard to use when executing test Pods |
| `--output`, `-o`  | string | output format. Valid options are: `text` and `json`. The default format is `text`, which is designed to be a simpler human readable format.|
| `--selector`, `-l`  | string |  the label selector to filter tests on. |
| `--service-account`, `-s`  | string |  the service account for scorecard to use when creating test Pods.|
| `--skip-cleanup`, `-x`  | boolean |  disable deleting test Pods and ConfigMaps generated from executing scorecard tests, useful for debugging.|

> | `--wait-time`, `-w`  | int |  seconds to wait for tests to complete.  Example is 35s.|

Reviewer 2: Do we really need this part? Can we not just link here or add a NOTE such as see the command documentation in N and point out the docs that are generated automatically?

Reviewer 2: See the section https://deploy-preview-3063--operator-sdk.netlify.app/docs/cli/ and the scorecard one https://deploy-preview-3063--operator-sdk.netlify.app/docs/cli/operator-sdk_scorecard/. 

I just do not know why the alpha has not been generated. Is it hidden? May we can just link the cli doc over it here.

Author: I generated the cli docs and included a link to those.

> ## Tests Performed

Reviewer 2: I think that the standard for doc titles are "action/ing". E.g Understanding tests performed

Author: hmmn, not sure that standard applies in all cases, but I updated one of these to be clearer.

Scorecard users can specify a `--selector` CLI flag to filter which 
tests it will execute.  If a selector flag is not supplied, then all 
the tests within the scorecard configuration file are executed.

Tests are executed serially, one after the other, with test results 
being aggregated by scorecard to present back to the end user.

Here are some examples of supplying a selector flag to scorecard:
```sh
operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=test=basic-check-spec-test
operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=suite=olm
operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector='test in (basic-check-spec-test,olm-bundle-validation-test)'
```

> 

Reviewer 2: May we would clarify what is happens in each example. Also, would not be better to have a specific section for it, something as "Using selectors"?

Author: good idea, updated.

| Provided APIs have validation |This test verifies that the CRDs for the provided CRs contain a validation section and that there is validation for each spec and status field detected in the CR. | olm-crds-have-validation |
| Owned CRDs Have Resources Listed | This test makes sure that the CRDs for each CR provided via the `cr-manifest` option have a `resources` subsection in the [`owned` CRDs section][owned-crds] of the CSV. If the test detects used resources that are not listed in the resources section, it will list them in the suggestions at the end of the test. | olm-crds-have-resources |
| Spec Fields With Descriptors | This test verifies that every field in the Custom Resources' spec sections have a corresponding descriptor listed in the CSV.| olm-spec-descriptors-test |
| Status Fields With Descriptors | This test verifies that every field in the Custom Resources' status sections have a corresponding descriptor listed in the CSV.| olm-status-descriptors-test |

## Scorecard Output

> 

Reviewer 2: Use the flag `--output` to define the format that its results should be output.

Author: I updated this section to reorganize it better.

### JSON format

> Here is an example of the JSON format produced by a scorecard test:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See an example of the JSON format produced by a scorecard test:
```

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "creationTimestamp": null
  },
  "log": "",
  "results": [
    {
      "name": "basic-check-spec",
      "description": "Custom Resource has a Spec Block",
      "state": "pass"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Text format

> Here is an example of the text format produced by a scorecard test:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See an example of the text format produced by a scorecard test:
```

Reviewer 2: I think we should not use too much here: .. You might find better options than I :)

```
	basic-check-spec                    : pass
	CR: 
	Labels: 
```

> This output is structured according to the golang struct found
> [here][scorecard-struct].

Reviewer 2: Something as : 
```suggestion
**NOTE** The results are done using the type [ScorecardOutput](https://godoc.org/github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pkg/apis/scorecard/v1alpha2#ScorecardOutput). 
```

## Exit Status

> 

Reviewer 2: It may, something as: 

```
The scorecard result follows the Unix command standards and good practices. In this way, if all tests are executed successfully the command returns a 0, while if at least 1 test fails it will return the code value `1` that usually can be interpreted as an error code.
```

The scorecard return code is 1 if any of the tests executed did not 
pass and 0 if all selected tests pass.

## Extending the Scorecard with Custom Tests

Scorecard can execute custom tests provided by ISVs or end users if 
the custom tests following some mandated conventions including:

 * tests are implemented within a container image
 * tests accept an entrypoint which include a command and arguments
 * tests produce v1alpha2 scorecard output in JSON format with no extraneous logging in the test output
 * tests can obtain the bundle contents at a shared mount point of /bundle
 * tests can access the Kube API using an in-cluster client connection

> See here for an example of a custom test image written in golang.  

Reviewer 2: missing the example.

Reviewer 2: May would be better add the example code here instead of having link unless it is auto-gen in some part of the code.

Author: once we include our custom image into the repo (another PR), I'll update this to point to that example.

Reviewer 2: It is fine. Can we leave it commented with a todo?

Author: I added a TODO so we wont' forget.

Scorecard requires the following Kube environment:

- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we do not really add here since it is the same pre-requirement defined to use the tool already.

Author: agreed, removed it.
